Add initial documentation of MusicQuiz (#767)
music-assistant/music-assistant.io: src/content/docs/plugins/music-quiz.md

---
title: Music Quiz Plugin
description: Host multiplayer music quiz games with QR-code guest access, shared or remote playback, and several game types.
---

# Music Quiz Plugin

> The Music Quiz plugin turns your Music Assistant library into a multiplayer quiz. Open the host dashboard on a TV, computer, or tablet, let players join by scanning a QR code, and run the game without creating accounts for your guests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Music Quiz plugin turns the Music Assistant library into a multiplayer quiz. Open the host dashboard on a TV, computer, or tablet, let players join by scanning a QR code, and run the game without creating accounts for the guests.
```

### Music Timeline

Players listen to a hidden song and place it into a growing chronological timeline. The first round starts with an automatically selected anchor song. After placing the new song, players can optionally identify its artist and title for bonus points.

| Setting | Default | Range / options | Description |
|---|---:|---:|---|
| **Rounds** | 5 | 1–100 | Number of songs players place. The source pool needs at least this many dated tracks plus one anchor. |
| **Answer time** | 30 seconds | 1–300 seconds | Maximum time to place the song and complete any enabled bonuses. |
| **Artist bonus** | Off | Off / Free text / Multiple choice | Adds an optional artist question after a correct placement. |
| **Title bonus** | Off | Off / Free text / Multiple choice | Adds an optional song-title question after a correct placement. |

Bonus questions are offered only after a correct placement. Players may answer them or select **Skip remaining bonuses**.

### Music Trivia

> Music Trivia asks AI-worded questions grounded in the title, artist, album, or release-year metadata of tracks from your selected sources. Music Assistant chooses the fact and validates the generated question and incorrect answers; the AI does not decide the correct answer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Music Trivia asks AI-worded questions grounded in the title, artist, album, or release-year metadata of tracks from the selected sources. Music Assistant chooses the fact and validates the generated question and incorrect answers; the AI does not decide the correct answer.
```

Players may also see **Listen in** on their own device. This depends on whether the selected playback session can attach that web player; the room speaker remains the primary output.

### Remote mode

Remote mode creates a Sendspin playback session and sends quiz audio to each player's web player. This is useful for silent-disco games or players in different locations. Each player should tap **Listen in** and keep the quiz page open so the browser can continue playing audio.

:::tip
Phone browsers commonly require a user gesture before playing sound. Asking everyone to join and tap **Listen in** before the host starts avoids missing the beginning of the first round.
:::

## Music sources

Every game requires at least one source. The source picker supports:

- Tracks
- Playlists
- Albums
- Artists
- Genres from the Music Assistant library

Music Assistant combines the tracks from all selected sources, removes duplicates, and randomly chooses unused tracks for the rounds. Choose sources with more unique tracks than the configured round count so unplayable items or missing metadata do not prevent the game from being created or continued.

### Include similar music

> Enable **Include similar music** to extend the selected pool with playable recommendations related to your sources. This provides more variety than the exact albums, artists, playlists, genres, or tracks you selected. When compatible radio/similar-track support is unavailable, Music Quiz continues with the selected sources only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable **Include similar music** to extend the selected pool with playable recommendations related to the available sources. This provides more variety than the exact albums, artists, playlists, genres, or tracks selected. When compatible radio/similar-track support is unavailable, Music Quiz continues with the selected sources only.
```

## Remote Access

When [Remote Access](/settings/remote-access) is enabled, the QR code uses `app.music-assistant.io` and players can join through WebRTC from outside the local network.

When Remote Access is disabled, the join link uses the Music Assistant server's local address and players must be able to reach that address, normally by joining the same network.

## Known issues and notes

- Music Quiz supports up to 100 joined players. Display names are limited to 40 characters and must be unique, ignoring capitalization.
- A disconnected player is kept for a 60-second reconnect grace period. After that, the player is removed from an active game and can join again.
- Guest join codes expire after 8 hours. Reloading an already joined page continues to use its issued guest session while that session remains valid.
- Some phone browsers suspend background tabs or block audio until the page is tapped. Keep the quiz visible and use **Listen in** again if audio stops.
- Music Timeline ignores tracks without a usable release year. Compilation or incomplete metadata can also make tracks unsuitable for Trivia.
- A player who joins during a round cannot answer until the following round.

> - The Music Quiz dashboard requires a compatible frontend. If guests see **Update required**, update or reload the Music Assistant frontend.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

### Opening the QR link on a signed-in device

The QR code issues a guest token and stores it in the browser. Opening it in the same browser profile that you use to administer Music Assistant replaces the existing signed-in session and redirects that browser to the guest interface.

Open the join link on the player's own device or in a private/incognito window. Do not open it in the normal browser profile used for the host dashboard.

To recover a browser that is stuck in guest mode, open the browser's developer tools on the Music Assistant page, run `localStorage.clear()` in the Console, and reload the page. The normal login screen will appear again.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
This should be fixed in the next beta
